Updated FAQ with Engineering Team (#3513)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-365-docs: microsoft-365/enterprise/cross-tenant-mailbox-migration.md

# Cross-tenant mailbox migration (preview)

> Previously, when an Exchange Online tenant needed to move mailboxes to another tenant in the same Exchange Online service, they would have to completely offboard them to on-premises and then onboard them to a new tenant. With the new cross-tenant mailbox migration feature, tenant administrators in both source and target tenants can move mailboxes between the tenants with minimal infrastructure dependencies in their on-premises systems. This removes the need to off-board and onboard mailboxes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, when an Exchange Online tenant needed to move mailboxes to another tenant in the same Exchange Online service, they would have to completely off-board them to on-premises and then onboard them to a new tenant. With the new cross-tenant mailbox migration feature, tenant administrators in both source and target tenants can move mailboxes between the tenants with minimal infrastructure dependencies in their on-premises systems. This removes the need to off-board and onboard mailboxes.
```

    | -KeyVaultAuditStorageResourceGroup          | The resource group that contains the storage account for storing Key Vault audit logs. | Optional |
    ||||

>     >[!Note]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [!Note]
```

>     > Please ensure you have installed the Azure AD PowerShell module prior to running the scripts. Please refer to ![here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps?view=azps-5.1.0) for installation steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Please ensure you have installed the Azure AD PowerShell module prior to running the scripts. Please refer to [Install Azure PowerShell](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps?view=azps-5.1.0) for installation steps.
```

    https://login.microsoftonline.com/contoso.onmicrosoft.com/adminconsent?client_id=6fea6ssd-0753-404d-wer5-c71a154d675c&redirect_uri=https://office.com
    Application details to be registered in organization relationship: ApplicationId: [ 6fes8en4-sjo3-406d-ad35-sldkfjiew993 ]. KeyVault secret Id: [ https://cross-tenantmovesvault.vault.azure.net:443/certificates/Contoso-Fabrikam-cert/ksdfj843nt8476h84c288c5a3fb8ec5fdb08 ]. These values are available in variables $AppId and $CertificateId respectively
    Please consent to the application for fabrikam.onmicrosoft.com before sending invitation to admin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com:
    ```  

> 7. A URL will be displayed in the Remote PowerShell session. Copy the link provided for your tenant consent and paste it into a Web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. A URL will be displayed in the Remote PowerShell session. Copy the link provided for your tenant consent and paste it into a web browser.
```

> The email address in the CSV file must be the one specified in the target tenant, not the source tenant.

Migration batch submission is also supported from the new Exchange Admin Center when selecting the cross-tenant option.

#### Update on-premises MailUsers

> Once the mailbox moves from source to target, you should ensure that the on-premises mail users, both Source and target, are updated with the new targetAddress. In the examples, the targetDeliveryDomain used in the move is **contoso.onmicrosoft.com**. Update the mail users with this targetAddress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the mailbox moves from source to target, you should ensure that the on-premises mail users, both source and target, are updated with the new targetAddress. In the examples, the targetDeliveryDomain used in the move is **contoso.onmicrosoft.com**. Update the mail users with this targetAddress.
```

Here's an example of the output of the mailbox permission after the move. 

```powershell
PS C:\PowerShell\> Get-TargetMailboxPermission testuser_7 | ft -AutoSize User, AccessRights, IsInherited, Deny
User                                             AccessRights                                                            IsInherited Deny
----                                             ------------                                                            ----------- ----
NT AUTHORITY\SELF                                {FullAccess, ReadPermission}                                            False       FalseTestUser_8@TargetCompany.onmicrosoft.com         {FullAccess}                                                            False       False
```
 
> [!Note]
> Cross-tenant mailbox and calendar permissions are NOT supported. You must organize principals and delegates into consolidated move batches so that these connected mailboxes are transitioned at the same time from the source tenant. 

**What X500 proxy should be added to the target MailUser proxy addresses to enable migration?**  

> The cross-tenant mailbox migration requires that the LegacyExchangeDN value of the source mailbox object to be stamped as an x500 email address on the target MailUser object.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cross-tenant mailbox migration requires that the LegacyExchangeDN value of the source mailbox object be stamped as an x500 email address on the target MailUser object.  
```

Example:  
```powershell
LegacyExchangeDN value on source mailbox is:  
/o=First Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=d11ec1a2cacd4f81858c81907273f1f9Lara  

> so the x500 email address to be added to target MailUser object would be:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the x500 email address to be added to the target MailUser object would be:  
```

x500:/o=First Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group (FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=d11ec1a2cacd4f81858c81907273f1f9-Lara  
```

> [!Note]  
> In addition to this X500 proxy, you will need to copy all X500 proxies from the mailbox in the source to the mailbox in the target.  

**Is Azure Key Vault required and when are transactions made?**  

> Yes, an Azure subscription is required to use Key Vault to store the certificate to authorize migration. Unlike onboarding migrations which use username & password to authenticate to the source, cross-tenant mailbox migrations use OAuth and this certificate as the secret/credential. Access to the Key Vault must be maintained throughout all mailbox migrations as it is accessed once at the beginning and once end of migration, as well as once every 24 hours during incremental sync times. You can review AKV costing details [here]( https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/key-vault/).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, an Azure subscription is required to use Key Vault to store the certificate to authorize migration. Unlike onboarding migrations that use a username and password to authenticate to the source, cross-tenant mailbox migrations use OAuth and this certificate as the secret/credential. Access to the Key Vault must be maintained throughout all mailbox migrations as it is accessed once at the beginning and once at the end of migration, as well as once every 24 hours during incremental sync times. For cost details, see [Key Vault pricing]( https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/key-vault/).  
```

**Do you have any recommendations for batches?**  

> Do not exceed 2000 mailboxes per batch. We strongly recommend submitting batches two weeks prior to the cut-over date as there is no impact to the end users during sync. If you need guidance for mailboxes quantities over 50,000 you can reachout to the Engineering Feedback Distribution List at crosstenantmigrationpreview@service.microsoft.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not exceed 2000 mailboxes per batch. We strongly recommend submitting batches two weeks prior to the cut-over date as there is no impact to the end-users during sync. If you need guidance for mailbox quantities over 50,000, you can reach out to the Engineering Feedback Distribution List at crosstenantmigrationpreview@service.microsoft.com.
```

**What if I use Service encryption with Customer Key?**

> The mailbox will be decrypted prior to moving. Ensure Customer Key is configured in the target tenant if it is still required. See [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/customer-key-overview) for more information.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mailbox will be decrypted prior to moving. Ensure Customer Key is configured in the target tenant if it is still required. See [Service encryption with Customer Key](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/compliance/customer-key-overview) for more information.  
```

**What is the estimated migration time?**

> To help you plan your migration, the table present [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/exchange/mailbox-migration/office-365-migration-best-practices#estimated-migration-times) shows the guidelines about when to expect bulk mailbox migrations or individual migrations to complete. These estimates are based on a data analysis of previous customer migrations. Because every environment is unique, your exact migration velocity may vary.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help you plan your migration, this [estimated migration times](https://docs.microsoft.com/exchange/mailbox-migration/office-365-migration-best-practices#estimated-migration-times) table provides guidelines about when to expect bulk mailbox migrations or individual migrations to complete. These estimates are based on data analysis of previous customer migrations. Because every environment is unique, your exact migration velocity may vary.  
```

> Do remember that this feature is currently in preview and the SLA and any applicable Service Levels do not apply to any performance or availability issues during the preview status of this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do remember that this feature is currently in preview and the service-level agreement and any applicable service levels do not apply to any performance or availability issues during the preview status of this feature.
```

     ```

   > [!Note]

>    > The *contoso.onmicrosoft.com* address is *not* present in the EmailAddresses / proxyAddresses array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > The *contoso.onmicrosoft.com* address is *not* present in the EmailAddresses/proxyAddresses array.
```

> - **Issue: MailUser objects with “external” primary SMTP addresses are modified / reset to “internal” company claimed domains**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Issue: MailUser objects with “external” primary SMTP addresses are modified/reset to “internal” company claimed domains**
```

   MailUser objects are pointers to non-local mailboxes. In the case for cross-tenant mailbox migrations, we use MailUser objects to represent either the source mailbox (from the target organization’s perspective) or target mailbox (from the source organization’s perspective). The MailUsers will have an ExternalEmailAddress (targetAddress) that points to the smtp address of the actual mailbox (ProxyTest@fabrikam.onmicrosoft.com) and primarySMTP address that represents the displayed SMTP address of the mailbox user in the directory. Some organizations choose to display the primary SMTP address as an external SMTP address, not as an address owned/verified by the local tenant (such as fabrikam.com rather than as contoso.com).  However, once an Exchange service plan object is applied to the MailUser via licensing operations, the primary SMTP address is modified to show as a domain verified by the local organization (contoso.com). There are two potential reasons:
   

>    - When any Exchange service plan is applied to a MailUser, the Azure AD process starts to enforce proxy scrubbing to ensure that the local organization is not able to send mail out, spoof, or mail from another tenant. Any SMTP address on a recipient object with these service plans will be removed if the address is not verified by the local organization. As is the case in the example, the Fabikam.com domain is NOT verified by the contoso.onmicrosoft.com tenant, so the scrubbing removes that fabrikam.com domain. If you wish to persist these external domain on MailUser, either before the migration or after migration, you need to alter your migration processes to strip licenses after the move completes or before the move to ensure that the users have the expected external branding applied. You will need to ensure that the mailbox object is properly licensed to not affect mail service.<br/><br/>An example script to remove the service plans on a MailUser in the Contoso.onmicrosoft.com tenant is shown here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - When any Exchange service plan is applied to a MailUser, the Azure AD process starts to enforce proxy scrubbing to ensure that the local organization is not able to send mail out, spoof, or mail from another tenant. Any SMTP address on a recipient object with these service plans will be removed if the address is not verified by the local organization. As is the case in the example, the Fabikam.com domain is NOT verified by the contoso.onmicrosoft.com tenant, so the scrubbing removes that fabrikam.com domain. If you wish to persist with this external domain on MailUser, either before the migration or after migration, you need to alter your migration processes to strip licenses after the move completes or before the move to ensure that the users have the expected external branding applied. You will need to ensure that the mailbox object is properly licensed to not affect mail service.<br/><br/>An example script to remove the service plans on a MailUser in the Contoso.onmicrosoft.com tenant is shown here.
```
